Reusing scripts for live resources & no more deploy buttons (#8398)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-js: CONTRIBUTING.md

Run `rush build -t <packagename>` to build a single project, and all local projects that it depends on. You can pass `-t` multiple times to build multiple projects. This works for `rush rebuild` as well. Keep in mind that Rush refers to packages by their full names, so packages will be named something like `@azure/<servicename>`.

By default, Rush only displays things written to `STDERR`. If you want to see the full output, pass `--verbose` to any of the build commands.

### Testing

If you want to run the tests of a specific project, go to that project's folder and execute `rushx test`. All of the tests will automatically run both in NodeJS and in the browser. To target these environments individually, you can run `rushx test:node` and `rushx test:browser`.

By default, these npm scripts run previously recorded tests. The recordings have been generated by using a custom recording library called [test-utils-recorder](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/sdk/test-utils/recorder/README.md). We will examine how to run recorded tests and live tests in the following sections.

#### Recorded tests

> Most of the tests in our projects run in playback mode by default, i.e they make no network requests to the real services. For http requests made in each test case, there is a recorded response that reproduces the service behavior. The readme file in the `test` folder of each package will indicate wether the package uses recorded tests or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the tests in our projects run in playback mode by default, i.e they make no network requests to the real services. For http requests made in each test case, there is a recorded response that reproduces the service behavior. The readme file in the `test` folder of each package will indicate weather the package uses recorded tests or not.
```

Author: Thank you! I always miss this word.

#### Live tests

> In case you want to run the tests of the packages that use our [recorder](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/sdk/test-utils/recorder/README.md) against live resources, you will continue to run the `test` npm script, but you will need to ensure that:
> 
> - The environment variable `TEST_MODE` is set to `live`.

Reviewer: Am guessing that the reason you are calling out "packages that use our recorder" to differentiate libraries like Event Hubs and Service Bus that don't use the recorder because the TEST_MODE will not apply to them?

But rest of the instructions in this section do apply to packages that dont use the recorder. So, I would think that we don't need to call this out. Thoughts?

```suggestion
To run the tests of the packages against live resources, follow the below before running the `rushx test` command.

- Set the environment variable `TEST_MODE` to `live`.
```

Author: I hope you don't mind if I do this instead:

> To use the `rushx test` command to run the tests against live resources, follow the instructions below.

- You must have had previously created the necessary Azure resources needed by the tests you want to execute.
- You must also set the appropriate environment variables to point to these resources.

The readme file in the `test` folder of each package lists the Azure resources and the environment variables needed.

> > Note: Our projects use [dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) to make it easier to work with environment variables.

Reviewer: I still see benefit in calling out the .env file. My previous comments were mainly for calling out other ways to set env variables. So, am fine hinting at it in a short sentence.

```suggestion
> Note: Our projects use [dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) to make it easier to work with environment variables. So, you can make use of .env files to set environment variables.
```

Author: What about:

> Note: Though you can set the environment variables as you normally would, our projects use [dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) to allow you to use `.env` files to set environment variables. Find the `sample.env` file closest to the project you want to test to have a template of the expected `.env` file already placed where the tests expect it to be.

This makes me wonder: Should we standardize how we use `dotenv`? I am seeing that not every package places the `.env` file at the same level.

Reviewer: Yes, we should standardize it

Author: I made this issue: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/issues/8526​​​​​​​

By default, Rush only displays things written to `STDERR`. If you want to see the full output, pass `--verbose` to any of the build commands. This is also true for script commands (see below).

### Testing

> Once the project has successfully built, you can test any of our packages by executing `rushx test` from the root of the package that you want to test. This will automatically run the tests in both NodeJS and in a browser. To target these environments individually, you can run `rushx test:node` and `rushx test:browser`.

Reviewer 2: Not all SDKs have the `build:test` or the `clean` command as part of the `test` command.
If we are suggesting this right after the `build`/`rebuild` step, we better fix the `test` command too. 

(At least log an issue)

Reviewer: I'd like this PR to be the forcing factor to fix some general expectations out of our test set up.
@sadasant, Please review the scripts for all Track 2 packages and log an issue for when the `test` script does have the build step in it.

Reviewer 3: > when the `test` script does have the build step in it

we need to work with EngSys team on this as they might have separated steps: build test, execute tests, etc. we don't want our build pipeline wasting time on duplicate work.

Author: I think I can do the work in coordination with Engineering system. What is not clear to me is what direction we should go:

- [ ] Build the tests inside of the script that runs the tests.
- [ ] Always build the tests in a separate command.

?

Reviewer 2: I suggest leave the united `test` command for developers, and isolated commands for clean, build, build:test, run-test for the pipelines.

Author: I've moved the build and the clean steps to the same `test` and `test-ci` commands in the new test guidelines proposal: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/7784

It looks like this:

````
  "test": "npm run clean && npm run build:test && npm run test:node && npm run test:browser",
  "test-ci": "npm run clean && npm run build:test && npm run test-ci:node && npm run test-ci:browser",
```

Reviewer: The EngSys team doesn't have to worry about this as they dont use the `test` script. They use `unit-test` for PR and `integration-test` for nightly

Reviewer 2: The thing is Daniel is suggesting to remove `integration-test` and `unit-test` completely.

Reviewer: not as part of this PR right?? This PR should reflect the state of things as is in the master branch. The test guidelines are still in progress and under discussion

Author: Not as part of this PR! This PR has no more mentions of unit or integration tests.

#### Recorded tests

By default, the npm scripts `test`, `test:node` and `test:browser` run recorded tests in playback mode i.e there is no request made to the service. For http requests made in each test case, there is a recorded response that is used which reproduces the service behavior.

Keep in mind that if you modify any code that is being tested, or any test code, that interacts with the number of network calls that will be made during testing, or the shape of those network calls, the recordings will need to be re-generated.

You can read more in the section: [Regenerating recordings](#regenerating-recordings).

#### Live tests

By default, the npm scripts `test`, `test:node` or `test:browser` run recorded tests. To run live tests, you need the right Azure resources, set appropriate environment variables to point to these resources and set the environment variable `TEST_MODE` to "live". The readme file in the test folder of each package lists the Azure resources and the environment variables needed.

> You can create the Azure resources manually on your own or automate this process by using the script called `New-TestResources.ps1`. Follow the steps in [`Example 1 of New-TestResources.ps1`](ttps://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#building). Once the project is correctly built, you will be able to run the tests by following the [testing instructions](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/eng/common/TestResources/New-TestResources.ps1.md#example-1) to set up a service principal and deploy live test resources. To see what resources will be deployed for a live service, check the `test-resources.json` ARM template files in the folder of the service you wish to deploy for testing, for example `sdk\keyvault\test-resources.json`.

Reviewer: Looks like there is big mish mash of words here. `Example 1 of New-TestResources.ps1` is linking to build instructions, we are referring to build instructions unnecessarily, `testing instructions` is linking to the script and we are talking about running tests to set up service principal and deploying live test resources.

```suggestion
You can create the Azure resources manually on your own or automate this process by using the script called `New-TestResources.ps1` which uses ARM templates defined in `test-resources.json` file in each project folder. Follow the steps in [`Example 1 of New-TestResources.ps1`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/eng/common/TestResources/New-TestResources.ps1.md#example-1) to set up a service principal and deploy live test resources. 
```

Author: Thank you! I mixed things.

> Live tests won't need updated recordings, and they also won't change previous recordings unless specified (see [Regenerating recordings](#regenerating-recordings)).

Reviewer: What is the purpose of this statement? We have already established the difference between live and recorded tests. Any reason we think that a reader would think that live tests would need recordings?

Author: It seems to me that at this point, this is the only paragraph that clearly states that live tests won't ever record anything. Seems like this clarification could be useful to prevent assumptions.

Author: Since the "regenerated recordings" section comes right after this paragraph, it makes more sense to me to remove it. Thank you for your feedback!

> Keep in mind that you can set the environment variables as how they're set by default through your system preferences, or through the command line, or by setting them each one in a different line in a `.env` file in the parent folder of the project you'll be testing (like in the folder `keyvault` if you're testing the project at `sdk/keyvault/keyvault-keys`). You can read more about how `dotenv` works in [their README](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv#readme).

Reviewer: Please see https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/8398#discussion_r412646834

Author: I'll remove this paragraph.

By default, Rush only displays things written to `STDERR`. If you want to see the full output, pass `--verbose` to any of the build commands. This is also true for script commands (see below).

### Testing

Once the project has successfully built, you can test any of our packages by executing `rushx test` from the root of the package that you want to test. This will automatically run the tests in both NodeJS and in a browser. To target these environments individually, you can run `rushx test:node` and `rushx test:browser`.

By default, these npm scripts run recorded tests. We use a custom recording library called `test-utils-recorder`. You can learn more about our recorder at the [test-utils-recorder's readme](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/sdk/test-utils/recorder/README.md).

#### Recorded tests

> To run unit tests, go to the root of the project you want to test and run `rushx unit-test`. These tests aim to reproduce the behavior of our library against remote endpoints through previously recorded HTTP request and responses. You won't need to have any environment configuration, nor internet access, for these tests to run.

Reviewer: As mentioned in https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/pull/8398#discussion_r410557291, let's avoid using the term "unit tests" or refering to the npm script `unit-test`

```suggestion
By default, the npm scripts `test`, `test:node` and `test:browser` run tests in playback mode i.e there is no request made to the service. For each http request, the recorded response is used instead which reproduces the service behavior. When running in playback mode, you won't need to have any environment configuration, or internet access.
```

Author: Thank you!

> Keep in mind that if you modify the test files or the underlying network calls of the project you're testing, the recordings will need to be re-generated.

Reviewer: Can we be more specific about what kind of changes will need recordings to be regenerated?

Author: I'm changing it to this:

> Keep in mind that if you modify any code that is being tested, or any test code, that interacts with the number of network calls that will be made during testing, or the shape of those network calls, the recordings will need to be re-generated.

Let me know if that's better.

You can read more in the section: [Regenerating recordings](#regenerating-recordings).

#### Live tests

> By default, the npm scripts `test`, `test:node` or `test:browser` run recorded tests. To run live tests, set the environment variable `TEST_MODE` to "live" and ensure you have the right Azure resources to test against.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the npm scripts `test`, `test:node` or `test:browser` run recorded tests. To run live tests, set the environment variable `TEST_MODE` to "live" and ensure you have the right Azure resources to test against. You can create these resources manually on your own or make use of the script we have for each service.
```

You can follow this up with the contents of the `Integration Testing with live services` section and remove the link you have a few lines below

Reviewer: Unresolving as the contents of the `Integration Testing with live services` are still in a separate section instead of being pulled in here and combining with `Live Tests` section.

Also, I kept the `...` in the suggested edit for you to make the necessary edits to make the flow from the content above to the content in `Integration Testing with live services` that we should pull in

Author: I think I resolved this by mistake! Thank you

Our integration tests will run against the live resources, which are determined by the environment variables you provide.

To run the integration tests, you will need to execute `rushx integration-test`.

> To generate new resources for your tests, follow the procedure at [Integration Testing with live services](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#integration-testing-with-live-services). What resources get created before the test, or created during the test depends on how the ARM template named `test-resources.json` is built, just as much as how the tests are written. Generally speaking, the ARM templates will create the main account in which individual tests will create the resources they test. For example, for the Service Bus client, the [ARM template](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/sdk/servicebus/test-resources.json) only creates the Service Bus namespace (with the appropriate configurations), while the tests automatically create the queues, topics and subscriptions.

Reviewer: > To generate new resources for your tests, follow the procedure at [Integration Testing with live services](...)

Any reason to not combine the contents of the `Integration Testing with live services` section here?

> Generally speaking, the ARM templates will create the main account in which individual tests will create the resources they test. For example, for the Service Bus client, the [ARM template](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/sdk/servicebus/test-resources.json) only creates the Service Bus namespace (with the appropriate configurations), while the tests automatically create the queues, topics and subscriptions.

Do we have to get into the details here? I would expect the individual test readmes to talk about what the corresponding ARM template would create.

Author: Gotcha, I thought you would like this since it's an attempt on reusing stuff. I'll make sure each readme has information about what each ARM template generates.

Author: Done!

By default, Rush only displays things written to `STDERR`. If you want to see the full output, pass `--verbose` to any of the build commands. This is also true for script commands (see below).

### Testing

Once the project has successfully built, you can test any of our packages by executing `rushx test` from the root of the package that you want to test. This will automatically run the tests in both NodeJS and in a browser. To target these environments individually, you can run `rushx test:node` and `rushx test:browser`.

> By default, these npm scripts run recorded tests. We use a custom recording library called `test-utils-recorder`. You can learn more about our recorder at the [test-utils-recorder's readme](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/sdk/test-utils/recorder/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, these npm scripts run recorded tests with exceptions for Event Hubs and the Service Bus projects which do not have recorded tests. We use a custom recording library called `test-utils-recorder`. You can learn more about our recorder at the [test-utils-recorder's readme](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/sdk/test-utils/recorder/README.md).
```

#### Recorded tests

By default, the npm scripts `test`, `test:node` and `test:browser` run recorded tests in playback mode i.e there is no request made to the service. For http requests made in each test case, there is a recorded response that is used which reproduces the service behavior.

Keep in mind that if you modify any code that is being tested, or any test code, that interacts with the number of network calls that will be made during testing, or the shape of those network calls, the recordings will need to be re-generated.

You can read more in the section: [Regenerating recordings](#regenerating-recordings).

#### Live tests

By default, the npm scripts `test`, `test:node` or `test:browser` run recorded tests. To run live tests, you need the right Azure resources, set appropriate environment variables to point to these resources and set the environment variable `TEST_MODE` to "live". The readme file in the test folder of each package lists the Azure resources you would need and the environment variables to update.

You can create the Azure resources manually on your own or automate this process by...

> Our integration tests will run against the live resources, which are determined by the environment variables you provide.

Reviewer: Do we need this line now that the text before this covers the same?

Author: This line has been removed too.

> To run the integration tests, you will need to execute `rushx integration-test`.

Reviewer: Why are we still referring to "integration tests" and the `rushx integration-test` command?
As mentioned elsewhere, we don't need to talk about "unit" vs "integration" tests as we have chosen to talk about "recorded" vs "live" tests. We also don't need to talk about the npm scripts `unit-test` and `integration-test` because a user is expected to only use the `test` npm script. `unit-test` and `integration-test`  are for CI

Author: Gotcha, should we change the guidelines (I mean the ones I'm proposing) to rename the unit-test and integration-test commands into: record, playback and live commands? Seems like it would be more straightforward.

To generate new resources for your tests, follow the procedure at [Integration Testing with live services](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#integration-testing-with-live-services). What resources get created before the test, or created during the test depends on how the ARM template named `test-resources.json` is built, just as much as how the tests are written.

Integration tests won't need updated recordings, and they also won't change previous recordings unless specified (see [Regenerating recordings](#regenerating-recordings)).

#### Regenerating recordings

If you modify the test files or the underlying network calls of the project you're testing, the recordings need to be re-generated before you run the unit tests.

> To re-generate the recordings, set the environment variable `TEST_MODE` to `record` and then run the integration tests. When this process finishes without errors, the recordings will be updated.

Reviewer: As long as `TEST_MODE` is set to `live`, one can still use the npm script `test` to re-generate the recordings right? If so, then I would not call out "integration" here.

`test-resources.json` ARM template files in the service you wish to deploy for
testing, for example `sdk\keyvault\test-resources.json`.

To deploy live resources for testing use the steps documented in [`Example 1 of New-TestResources.ps1`](eng/common/TestResources/New-TestResources.ps1.md#example-1) to set up a service principal and deploy live testing resources.

The script will provide instructions for setting environment variables before running live tests.

> Keep in mind that you can set the environment variables as how they're set by default through your system preferences, or through the command line by assigning values to these variable names one by one before running the tests, like `<name1>=<value1> <name2>=<value2> rushx <command>`, or by setting them each one in a different line in a `.env` file in the parent folder of the project you'll be testing (like in the folder `keyvault` if you're testing the project at `sdk/keyvault/keyvault-keys`).

Reviewer: Among the different ways to set env variables here, the one using `.env` is the only one I would expect a program mer to not be aware of or to not be able to find by looking it up.

Author: Is this better?

> Keep in mind that you can set the environment variables as how they're set by default through your system preferences, or through the command line, or by setting them each one in a different line in a `.env` file in the parent folder of the project you'll be testing (like in the folder `keyvault` if you're testing the project at `sdk/keyvault/keyvault-keys`). You can read more about how `dotenv` works in [their README](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv#readme).

Seems reasonable to mention the alternatives at least.

Reviewer: There are a few concerns I have here:

- Starting a sentence with the phrase `Keep in mind` tells the reader that they need to follow a particular instruction otherwise would face unexpected consequences. What we are trying to convey here doesnt fall under that category.
- I would assume that most users would know how to set env variables in general. It is also something very easy to look up. I wouldnt want to give real estate to instructions that are not a result of specific decisions the testing infrastructure has taken. The use of `.env` file is definitely worth calling out, but others not so much. When we are showing a reader a big wall of text, it is important to keep it to the point and brief
- Say that you still want to show the alternatives, then I would recommend using a bulleted list so that it is easy to glance over, rather than read till the end of the paragraph to find the part that the user is not aware of

Author: > I would assume that most users would know how to set env variables in general. It is also something very easy to look up.

Even in our own team, we've had issues with environment variables. I believe it is better to reduce the assumptions, if possible.

Author: I think I will remove this paragraph

`test-resources.json` ARM template files in the service you wish to deploy for
testing, for example `sdk\keyvault\test-resources.json`.

> To deploy live resources for testing use the steps documented in [`Example 1 of New-TestResources.ps1`](eng/common/TestResources/New-TestResources.ps1.md#example-1) to set up a service principal and deploy live testing resources.

Reviewer: We start the sentence with "To deploy live resources for testing" and end the sentence with "and deploy live testing resources."

> The script will provide instructions for setting environment variables before running live tests.

Reviewer: How does the script provide instructions for setting env variables? Does it print it out to the console?

Author: This line is a mistake. I've removed it.
